README.md, before:

# ldapproxy

The Ldapproxy module is a communication broker between an account provider
LDAP backend (like Samba DC, OpenLDAP...) and a consumer module that wants
to authenticate its users against the LDAP service (e.g. Nextcloud).

## Connect to the LDAP service proxy

A default Ldapproxy instance is installed as a core module on each cluster
node.

The consumer module runs on the same node where the Ldapproxy instance is
running. See how to connect with Ldapproxy with the [Python
`agent.ldapproxy`
package](https://github.com/NethServer/ns8-scratchpad/blob/main/doc/details.md#users-and-groups-ldapproxy).


## Test with ldapsearch

Annotate the TCP port and bind credentials from the output of `runagent
python3 -magent.ldapproxy`:

    export TCP_PORT=20000 BIND_DN=ldapservice@ad.dp.nethserver.net BIND_PASSWORD=xxx

Test with Podman `host` network:

    podman run --network=host --replace --name=alpine-ldapclient --rm -d alpine sh -c 'apk add openldap-clients ; sleep INF'
    podman exec -i alpine-ldapclient ldapsearch -x -D "${BIND_DN}" -w "${BIND_PASSWORD}" -s base -H ldap://"127.0.0.1:${TCP_PORT}"

Test with Podman `private` network:

    podman run --network=slirp4netns:allow_host_loopback=true --replace --name=alpine-ldapclient --rm -d alpine sh -c 'apk add openldap-clients ; sleep INF'
    podman exec -i alpine-ldapclient ldapsearch -x -D "${BIND_DN}" -w "${BIND_PASSWORD}" -s base -H ldap://"10.0.2.2:${TCP_PORT}"

Commit message:

Split internal/external provider event handling (#6)
- Handle two distinct event types raised by internal and external account providers.
- Raise an event `user-domain-changed`, when a domain port is allocated/deallocated.

README.md, after:

# ldapproxy

The Ldapproxy module is a communication broker between an account provider
LDAP backend (like Samba DC, OpenLDAP, or an external LDAP service) and a
consumer module that wants to authenticate its users against the LDAP
service (e.g. Nextcloud). It is a L4 proxy for LDAP services built on Nginx.

As a L4 proxy, there is an important limitation to be aware of: LDAP
referrals might not work correctly. LDAP clients connecting through the L4
proxy should not follow LDAP referrals.

## Events

Ldapproxy listens for two types of events

- `ldap-provider-changed`, raised by the cluster APIs when an external
  LDAP service is configured
- `service-ldap-changed`, raised by internal LDAP account providers when
  the LDAP service is configured

The Ldapproxy stores pairs of (domain, port number) in Redis. Each time it
allocates (or deallocates) a pair, it raises a `user-domain-changed`
event. This is an example of the raised event, as a Redis command:

    PUBLISH module/ldapproxy1/event/user-domain-changed {"domain":"dom.test","node_id":1}

## Connect to the LDAP service proxy

A default Ldapproxy instance is installed as a core module on each cluster
node.

The consumer module runs on the same node where the Ldapproxy instance is
running. See how to connect with Ldapproxy with the [Python
`agent.ldapproxy`
package](https://github.com/NethServer/ns8-scratchpad/blob/main/doc/details.md#users-and-groups-ldapproxy).


## Test with ldapsearch

Annotate the TCP port and bind credentials from the output of `runagent
python3 -magent.ldapproxy`:

    export TCP_PORT=20000 BIND_DN=ldapservice@ad.dp.nethserver.net BIND_PASSWORD=xxx

Test with Podman `host` network:

    podman run --network=host --replace --name=alpine-ldapclient --rm -d alpine sh -c 'apk add openldap-clients ; sleep INF'
    podman exec -i alpine-ldapclient ldapsearch -x -D "${BIND_DN}" -w "${BIND_PASSWORD}" -s base -H ldap://"127.0.0.1:${TCP_PORT}"

Test with Podman `private` network:

    podman run --network=slirp4netns:allow_host_loopback=true --replace --name=alpine-ldapclient --rm -d alpine sh -c 'apk add openldap-clients ; sleep INF'
    podman exec -i alpine-ldapclient ldapsearch -x -D "${BIND_DN}" -w "${BIND_PASSWORD}" -s base -H ldap://"10.0.2.2:${TCP_PORT}"
